README.md, before:

# TraceAssist Instrumentation Action

[![GitHub Marketplace](https://img.shields.io/badge/Marketplace-TraceAssist%20Action-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/traceassist-instrumentation-action)

Automate the instrumentation of your Kubernetes applications with a single GitHub Action.

The **TraceAssist Action** integrates with your CI/CD pipeline, calling the hosted TraceAssist service to intelligently analyze your Kubernetes manifests. It automatically injects the necessary annotations and configurations for seamless, zero-touch auto-instrumentation with the OpenTelemetry Operator.

---

## ✨ How It Works

This action simplifies observability by decoupling instrumentation from your deployment logic.

1.  **Your CI/CD Workflow Runs**: On a `git push`, your workflow builds your application's Docker image as usual.
2.  **Call the TraceAssist Action**: The action securely sends your `deployment.yaml` content to the hosted TraceAssist API. The API analyzes the manifest, injects the required OpenTelemetry annotations, and returns the modified file.
3.  **Deploy Instrumented App**: Your workflow then uses the modified, "observability-ready" manifest to deploy your application, which is automatically instrumented by the OpenTelemetry Operator running in your cluster.

---

## ✅ Prerequisites

Before using this action, you must have the following components set up in your target Kubernetes cluster.

### 1. Install the OpenTelemetry Operator
The operator is the engine for auto-instrumentation. You can install it via Helm:
```sh
helm upgrade --install opentelemetry-operator open-telemetry/opentelemetry-operator \
  --namespace opentelemetry-operator-system --create-namespace
```

### 2. Configure a Collector
You must have an OpenTelemetry Collector running in your cluster to receive telemetry data.

### 3. Apply TraceAssist Configurations
You need to apply two manifest files from this repository to your cluster. These only need to be applied once per namespace.

* **RBAC Permissions**: This creates the necessary `ServiceAccount` and `RoleBinding`. You can apply it directly from this repository:
    ```sh
    kubectl apply -f [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harshit-jindal02/traceassist-action/refs/heads/main/templates/traceassist-rbac.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harshit-jindal02/traceassist-action/refs/heads/main/templates/traceassist-rbac.yaml)
    ```
    *(Note: You may need to edit the file to change `namespace: default` to your application's namespace.)*

* **Instrumentation Resource**: This tells the OTel Operator how to instrument your pods.
    ```sh
    kubectl apply -f [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harshit-jindal02/traceassist-action/refs/heads/main/templates/instrumentation.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harshit-jindal02/traceassist-action/refs/heads/main/templates/instrumentation.yaml)
    ```
    *(Note: Be sure to edit this file to set the correct `endpoint` for your OpenTelemetry Collector.)*

---

## 🚀 Usage

Add a step to your existing CI/CD workflow that uses `your-github-username/traceassist-action@v1`. This step should come after you build your Docker image but before you deploy to Kubernetes.

### Example Workflow

Here is a complete example workflow. You can use this as a template for your own `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` file.

```yaml
name: Build, Instrument, and Deploy

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main

jobs:
  build-and-deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout Code
        uses: actions/checkout@v4

      # 1. Build and push your Docker image
      - name: Build and Push Docker Image
        uses: docker/build-push-action@v5
        with:
          context: .
          push: true
          tags: your-registry/your-app:${{ github.sha }}
          # Remember to update your deployment.yaml to use this new image tag!

      # 2. Use the TraceAssist Action to instrument your manifest
      - name: Instrument Kubernetes Manifest
        id: traceassist
        uses: your-github-username/traceassist-action@v1
        with:
          traceassist_host: '[https://api.your-traceassist-service.com](https://api.your-traceassist-service.com)'
          manifest_path: './k8s/deployment.yaml'
          deployment_name: 'my-production-app'

      # 3. Deploy your now-instrumented application
      - name: Deploy to Kubernetes
        uses: ahmadnassri/action-kubectl@v1
        with:
          command: apply -f ./k8s/deployment.yaml
        env:
          # You must configure this secret in your repository settings
          KUBE_CONFIG_DATA: ${{ secrets.KUBE_CONFIG_DATA }}
```

---

## Action Inputs and Outputs

### Inputs

| Name               | Description                                           | Required |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `traceassist_host` | The URL of the hosted TraceAssist backend service.    | `true`   |
| `manifest_path`    | The path to the Kubernetes manifest file to instrument. | `true`   |
| `deployment_name`  | A unique name for your application deployment.        | `true`   |

### Outputs

| Name             | Description                                                   |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `changes_made`   | Returns `"true"` if the manifest was modified, otherwise `"false"`. |

---

## Advanced Usage: Committing Manifest Changes

You can use the `changes_made` output to optionally commit the instrumented manifest back to your repository. This is useful for keeping your Git repository as the source of truth for your deployments.

```yaml
      # ... previous steps ...

      - name: Instrument Kubernetes Manifest
        id: traceassist
        uses: your-github-username/traceassist-action@v1
        with:
          traceassist_host: '[https://api.your-traceassist-service.com](https://api.your-traceassist-service.com)'
          manifest_path: './k8s/deployment.yaml'
          deployment_name: 'my-production-app'

      # New step to commit changes if the manifest was modified
      - name: Commit and Push Instrumented Manifest
        if: steps.traceassist.outputs.changes_made == 'true'
        run: |
          git config --global user.name 'github-actions[bot]'
          git config --global user.email 'github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com'
          git add ./k8s/deployment.yaml
          git commit -m "ci: Auto-instrument manifest via TraceAssist"
          git push

      # ... deployment step ...
```

---

## 📜 License

This GitHub Action is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Update README, add DB privacy policy

README.md, after:

# TraceAssist Instrumentation Action

[![GitHub Marketplace](https://img.shields.io/badge/Marketplace-TraceAssist%20Action-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/traceassist-instrumentation-action)

Automate the instrumentation of your Kubernetes applications with a single GitHub Action.

The **TraceAssist Action** integrates with your CI/CD pipeline, calling the hosted TraceAssist service to intelligently analyze your Kubernetes manifests. It automatically injects the necessary annotations and configurations for seamless, zero-touch auto-instrumentation with the OpenTelemetry Operator.

---

## ✨ How It Works

This action simplifies observability by decoupling instrumentation from your deployment logic.

1.  **Your CI/CD Workflow Runs**: On a `git push`, your workflow builds your application's Docker image as usual.
2.  **Call the TraceAssist Action**: The action securely sends your `deployment.yaml` content to the hosted TraceAssist API. The API analyzes the manifest, injects the required OpenTelemetry annotations, and returns the modified file.
3.  **Deploy Instrumented App**: Your workflow then uses the modified, "observability-ready" manifest to deploy your application, which is automatically instrumented by the OpenTelemetry Operator running in your cluster.

---

## ✅ Prerequisites

Before using this action, you must have the following components set up in your target Kubernetes cluster.

### 1. Install the OpenTelemetry Operator
The operator is the engine for auto-instrumentation. You can install it via Helm:
```sh
helm upgrade --install opentelemetry-operator open-telemetry/opentelemetry-operator \
  --namespace opentelemetry-operator-system --create-namespace
```

### 2. Configure a Collector
You must have an OpenTelemetry Collector running in your cluster to receive telemetry data.

### 3. Apply TraceAssist Configurations
You need to apply two manifest files from this repository to your cluster. These only need to be applied once per namespace.

* **RBAC Permissions**: This creates the necessary `ServiceAccount` and `RoleBinding`. You can apply it directly from this repository:
    ```sh
    kubectl apply -f [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harshit-jindal02/traceassist-action/main/templates/traceassist-rbac.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harshit-jindal02/traceassist-action/main/templates/traceassist-rbac.yaml)
    ```
    *(Note: You may need to edit the file to change `namespace: default` to your application's namespace.)*

* **Instrumentation Resource**: This tells the OTel Operator how to instrument your pods.
    ```sh
    kubectl apply -f [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harshit-jindal02/traceassist-action/main/templates/instrumentation.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harshit-jindal02/traceassist-action/main/templates/instrumentation.yaml)
    ```
    *(Note: Be sure to edit this file to set the correct `endpoint` for your OpenTelemetry Collector.)*

---

## 🚀 Usage

Add a step to your existing CI/CD workflow that uses `harshit-jindal02/traceassist-action@v1`. This step should come after you build your Docker image but before you deploy to Kubernetes.

### Example Workflow

Here is a complete example workflow. You can use this as a template for your own `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` file.

```yaml
name: Build, Instrument, and Deploy

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main

jobs:
  build-and-deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout Code
        uses: actions/checkout@v4

      # 1. Build and push your Docker image
      - name: Build and Push Docker Image
        uses: docker/build-push-action@v5
        with:
          context: .
          push: true
          tags: your-registry/your-app:${{ github.sha }}
          # Remember to update your deployment.yaml to use this new image tag!

      # 2. Use the TraceAssist Action to instrument your manifest
      - name: Instrument Kubernetes Manifest
        id: traceassist
        uses: harshit-jindal02/traceassist-action@v1
        with:
          traceassist_host: '[https://api.your-traceassist-service.com](https://api.your-traceassist-service.com)'
          manifest_path: './k8s/deployment.yaml'
          deployment_name: 'my-production-app'

      # 3. Deploy your now-instrumented application
      - name: Deploy to Kubernetes
        uses: ahmadnassri/action-kubectl@v1
        with:
          command: apply -f ./k8s/deployment.yaml
        env:
          # You must configure this secret in your repository settings
          KUBE_CONFIG_DATA: ${{ secrets.KUBE_CONFIG_DATA }}
```

---

## 🔒 Data Privacy and Usage

To improve our service and understand usage patterns, the TraceAssist service logs anonymous metadata for each API call. We are committed to your privacy and **do not store any sensitive information**.

**What We Log:**
* The name of the client repository (e.g., `your-username/your-repo`).
* The `deployment_name` provided to the action.
* A boolean flag indicating whether changes were made to the manifest.
* A timestamp of the request.

**What We DO NOT Log:**
* We **never** store the content of your Kubernetes manifest files.
* We **never** store any secrets or credentials.

This anonymous data helps us monitor the health of our service and gather high-level analytics (e.g., "the service processed 50 requests today").

---

## Action Inputs and Outputs

### Inputs

| Name               | Description                                           | Required |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `traceassist_host` | The URL of the hosted TraceAssist backend service.    | `true`   |
| `manifest_path`    | The path to the Kubernetes manifest file to instrument. | `true`   |
| `deployment_name`  | A unique name for your application deployment.        | `true`   |

### Outputs

| Name             | Description                                                   |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `changes_made`   | Returns `"true"` if the manifest was modified, otherwise `"false"`. |

---

## Advanced Usage: Committing Manifest Changes

You can use the `changes_made` output to optionally commit the instrumented manifest back to your repository. This is useful for keeping your Git repository as the source of truth for your deployments.

```yaml
      # ... previous steps ...

      - name: Instrument Kubernetes Manifest
        id: traceassist
        uses: harshit-jindal02/traceassist-action@v1
        with:
          traceassist_host: '[https://api.your-traceassist-service.com](https://api.your-traceassist-service.com)'
          manifest_path: './k8s/deployment.yaml'
          deployment_name: 'my-production-app'

      # New step to commit changes if the manifest was modified
      - name: Commit and Push Instrumented Manifest
        if: steps.traceassist.outputs.changes_made == 'true'
        run: |
          git config --global user.name 'github-actions[bot]'
          git config --global user.email 'github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com'
          git add ./k8s/deployment.yaml
          git commit -m "ci: Auto-instrument manifest via TraceAssist"
          git push

      # ... deployment step ...
```

---

## 📜 License

This GitHub Action is licensed under the MIT License.
